Exercises with OLAP cubes
Exercises with OLAP cubes
Exercise 1. Create a project named DW_group_name, which should be of the Analysis Services Multidimensional and Data Mining type.

Start MS Visual Studio (MS SQL Server Data Tools must be installed).

Exercise 2. Create a connection to a data source.

In Solution Explorer, right click on Data Sources à New Data Source.

In Data Connection, enter:

Server name: ...

Use Windows Authentication

Database Name: YourDatabaseName

Name the connection Data Source - Connection.



Exercise 3. Define the perspectives of data access.

In Solution Explorer, right click on Data Sources à New Data Source View

In Relational Data Sources, select the source you created in the first step.

Change the name to Data Source - Data.



Exercise 4. Create a multidimensional cube, deploy and process (for this it may be necessary to enter new project properties - Solution Explorer -> Project name -> Properties).

Right button on Cubes - New Cube - Use existing tables

Choose the correct dimensions and measures.

Finish creating the cube and click Process. If necessary, change the server settings in the Properties option of the project.

Exercise 5. On the Browse tab check the available cube browsing options.

Drag and drop dimensions and measures by selecting them from the left and dropping them on the main screen.

Exercise 6. Add the necessary dimensions in the cube and then re-deploy and process the cube (Deploy -> Process).
On the Cube structure - Dimensions - tab, the dimension name à Edit

Drag-and-Drop principle drag the dimensions on the right side of the cube (do not drag the primary keys as they already exist - id columns).

Process the cube (right click on the cube name à Process).

Exercise 7. Specify which dimensions can be hidden in the dimensions list and hide them.
On the dimension name (table columns), right click - AttributeHierarchyVisible on False.

Exercise 8. Define which dimensions are aggregate. Those that are not aggregates should have a specific default value of the so-called Default Member. Deploy this solution in a multidimensional cube.

On the dimension name (table columns), right button - IsAggregatable on False, DefaultMember on any selected dimension.

Exercise 9. Add two perspectives P1 and P2 - hiding some dimensions.

Perspectives tab - New Perspective icon - rename - selection of dimensions.

Exercise 10. Create translations for any two languages.

The Translations tab - the New Translation icon - rename the dimension tables.
